# 1_1a

## Command to Run
make

## Make File Break Down
This line creates the output generated by the preprocessor which has a .i extension. This file has all headers included, comments removed and macros replaced 

	@gcc -E 1a.c -o 1a.i

This line generates the output assembly file. Note this is pure assembly which is denoted by the lower case s in the extension '.s'. A capital '.S' indicates an assembly code which still needs to go through a preprocessor.

	@gcc -S 1a.i -o 1a.s

The subsequent 3 lines generate and link the object file (.o) which then produces the executable which is run

	@gcc -c 1a.s -o 1a.o
	@gcc 1a.o -o 1a
	@./1a

## General Code Breakdown

- The countrows() function firstly counts the rows using open and read syscalls.
- The row count is then used to make the code workable for arbitary number of rows provided they follow the same format
- The struct marks_structure is used to store the assignment scores.
- The fork sys call then creates two processes. The child process has id = 0 which is used for section A otherwise the if else statement proceeds to compute for section B. 
- In the if block - 
    - The processData function is called which populates the 2D Marks Array and 1D section array with Data from the CSV. 
    - Then the section variable is set to "A" indicating the function will be called for section A as this variable is used inside the printforgivensection function. The function computes the scores, stores and prints it.
    - For printing the stringPrinter function is used which takes the given format and prints it accordingly
    - After completion and exit(0) call is made to exit the child process.
- In the else block - 
    - The processData function is called which populates the 2D Marks Array and 1D section array with Data from the CSV. 
    - Then the section variable is set to "A" indicating the function will be called for section A as this variable is used inside the printforgivensection function. The function computes the scores, stores and prints it.
    - For printing the stringPrinter function is used.